# Proposal: CI improvement

Author: Yan Wang

Epic: [goharbor/harbor#5855](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor/issues/5855)

## Abstract

As for donate to CNCF, harbor has to enhance it's CI system to make it easier for
the contributor to commit code and write tests, either UI or API tests. Provide an 
single CI system is easy to maintain and easy to learn.

## Background

Currently, there are three CI systems running on Harbor repo that are travis, drone 
and jenkins. 

* Travis CI executes UI test.
* Drone CI executes E2E test and packages the installer.
* Jenkins CI executes full tests daily, it's locates in the VMWare internal network.   

Drone is running in the VMWare internal network, and any pull request created by 
contributor who is not a memeber of VMWare community is not allowed to be executed
automaticlly. This is not friendly for the commumity contributor.

Jenkins is running in the VMWare internal network and infrastructure, all of the E2E
tests - almost are UI based - are executed daily. The results is published to the 
internal Slack channel. This is not friendly for the communtion contributor, anyone
who does not have permission to access VMWare network has no way to view the results.

## Proposal
Unify the CI systems, make it easy to the community contributor to triage their
code changes, have access to the CI results and develop new tests.

1, Deprecate drone CI to run tests, leave it as build system only. Any pull request
will not trigger a drone job, only push(code merge) will trigger a drone job to package
installer and push it to the google storage. Drone will be an internal build system, 
the package URL is public, anyone could get the latest dev/release build with the
public URL.

2, Enhance travis CI to run jobs parallel, it's in charge of testing execution, include
UT/API. Any pull request will trigger four CI jobs, that are UT/API on DB auth/API on 
LDAP auth/Package installer, all of these results are associate with commit.

3, Public the nightly results generated by internal jenkins CI systems, anyone could 
get the status from repo badge to see testing results and to know whether their code 
introduces regression.

4, Define a API development process, any new contributor could follow the guideline to 
develop their API tests easily as test code is a must-have part of pull request.
